GitHub DS Plugin docs (#292)
grafana/github-datasource: docs/sources/setup/installation.md

Reviewer: I think this also could be refactored as a task topic: https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/structure/topic-types/task/ and then be renamed to "Install the GitHub data source plugin"

Author: done now

---

> title: 'Installation'
> menuTitle: Installation
> description: Install the GitHub data source plugin
> keywords:
>   - data source
>   - github
>   - github repository
>   - API
> labels:
>   products:
>     - oss
>     - enterprise
>     - cloud
> weight: 101
> ---
> 
> # Install the GitHub data source plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Install the GitHub data source plugin for Grafana
menuTitle: Install
description: Learn how to install the GitHub data source plugin for Grafana
keywords:
  - data source
  - github
  - github repository
  - API
labels:
  products:
    - oss
    - enterprise
    - cloud
weight: 101
---

# Install the GitHub data source plugin for Grafana
```

> There are multiple ways to install this plugin into your Grafana instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can any of the following sets of steps to install the GitHub data source plugin for Grafana.
```

## Install from plugin catalog

> 1. Login to Grafana Web UI as **Server Admin**.

Reviewer: Using the same language as in https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/user-management/server-user-management/#:~:text=of%20users%3A-,Sign%20in%20to%20Grafana%20as%20a%20server%20administrator.,-Click%20Administration%20in.

```suggestion
1. Sign in to Grafana as a server administrator.
```

1. Click **Administration** > **Plugins and data** > **Plugins** in the side navigation menu to view all plugins.
1. Type **GitHub** in the Search box.
1. Click the **All** in the **State** filter option.
1. Click the plugin’s logo.

> 1. Click Install.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Install**.
```

Find more information about the [plugin catalog](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/plugin-management/#plugin-catalog).

## Install from grafana.com

Install the plugin from the [grafana.com plugins page](https://grafana.com/grafana/plugins/grafana-github-datasource/?tab=installation) using the instructions provided there. With this installation, you will get the latest published version of the plugin.

## Install from GitHub

1. Go to [Releases](https://github.com/grafana/github-datasource/releases/) on the GitHub project page.

1. Find the release you want to install.

> 1. Download the release by clicking the release asset called `grafana-github-datasource-<version>.zip`. You may need to un-collapse the **Assets** section to see it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Download the release by clicking the release asset called `grafana-github-datasource-<VERSION>.zip`. You may need to un-collapse the **Assets** section to see it.
```

1. Unarchive the plugin into the Grafana plugins directory:

>    In Linux/macOS, you can use the following command to extract the plugin:
> 
>    ```bash
>    unzip grafana-github-datasource-<version>.zip
>    mv grafana-github-datasource /var/lib/grafana/plugins
>    ```
> 
>    In Windows, you can use the following command to extract the plugin:
> 
>    ```shell
>    Expand-Archive -Path grafana-github-datasource-<version>.zip -DestinationPath C:\grafana\data\plugins
>    ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
   On Linux or macOS, run the following commands to extract the plugin:

   ```bash
   unzip grafana-github-datasource-<VERSION>.zip
   mv grafana-github-datasource /var/lib/grafana/plugins
   ```

   On Windows, run the following command to extract the plugin:

   ```powershell
   Expand-Archive -Path grafana-github-datasource-<VERSION>.zip -DestinationPath C:\grafana\data\plugins
   ```
````

> 1. Then restart Grafana.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Restart Grafana.
```

## Install using grafana-cli

If you are using `grafana-cli`, execute the following command to install the latest published version of the plugin:

1. Login to your machine as `root` user.

> 1. In Linux/macOS, open your terminal and write the command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On Linux or macOS, open your terminal and run the following command:
```

   ```bash
   grafana-cli plugins install grafana-github-datasource
   ```

>    Similarly, if you are using Windows machine, use the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   On Windows, run the following command:
```

   ```shell
   grafana-cli.exe plugins install grafana-github-datasource
   ```

1. Then restart Grafana.

### Install custom version

> If you need custom version of the plugin from github, you can install using the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need custom version of the plugin from GitHub, you can install it by running the following command:
```

```bash
grafana-cli --pluginUrl <ZIP_FILE_URL> plugins install grafana-github-datasource
```

> **Example:**
> 
> 1. In Linux/macOS:
> 
>    ```bash
>    grafana-cli --pluginUrl https://github.com/grafana/github-datasource/releases/download/v1.6.0/grafana-github-datasource-1.6.0.zip plugins install grafana-github-datasource
>    ```
> 
> 1. In Windows:
> 
>    ```shell
>    grafana-cli.exe --pluginUrl https://github.com/grafana/github-datasource/releases/download/v1.6.0/grafana-github-datasource-1.6.0.zip plugins install grafana-github-datasource
>    ```
> 
> 1. Then restart Grafana.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
For example, to install version 1.6.0 of the plugin on Linux or macOS:

```bash
grafana-cli --pluginUrl https://github.com/grafana/github-datasource/releases/download/v1.6.0/grafana-github-datasource-1.6.0.zip plugins install grafana-github-datasource
```

Or to install version 1.6.0 of the plugin on windows:

```shell
grafana-cli.exe --pluginUrl https://github.com/grafana/github-datasource/releases/download/v1.6.0/grafana-github-datasource-1.6.0.zip plugins install grafana-github-datasource
```
````

---

> slug: '/installation'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

title: 'Installation'
menuTitle: Installation
description: Installation of the GitHub data source plugin
aliases:
  - github
keywords:
  - data source
  - github
  - github repository
  - API
labels:
  products:
    - oss
    - enterprise
    - cloud
weight: 101
---

# Installing Infinity data source plugin

> There are multiple ways to install this plugin into your grafana instance

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are multiple ways to install this plugin into your Grafana instance
```

> ## Install from Plugin Catalog

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Install from plugin catalog
```

> Install the plugin directly within the Grafana WebUI using the [plugin catalog](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/plugin-management/#plugin-catalog).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Install the plugin directly within the Grafana web UI using the [plugin catalog](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/plugin-management/#plugin-catalog).
```
